Add Client API Config document (#1783)
vdaas/vald: docs/user-guides/client-api-config.md

# Client API Config

> Vald provides client libraries for indexing vectors, searching approximate nearest neighbor vectors, and removing indexing vectors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vald provides client libraries to make it easier to access different API provided by Vald, including index vectors, searching approximate nearest neighbor vectors, update and removing indexing vectors.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Vald provides client libraries to make it easier to access different API provided by Vald, including indexing vectors, searching approximate nearest neighbor vectors, updating vectors, and removing indexed vectors.
```

> Each request allows setting configuration for user demands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each request allows setting request configuration for user demands.
```

> Please select the section which you need.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please select the section you need.
```

> Please also see each API document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please also read API document for more details.
```

Author: ```suggestion
<div class="notice">
Please read the API documentation for more API service details.
</div>
```

## Insert Service

> `Insert` is inserting new vectors into the Vald cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Insert` service allows users to insert new vector(s) into the Vald cluster.
```

```go
package main

import (
	"context"
	"time"

	"github.com/vdaas/vald-client-go/v1/payload"
	"github.com/vdaas/vald-client-go/v1/vald"
	"google.golang.org/grpc"
)

func main() {
	// Create connection
	ctx, cancel := context.WithCancel(context.Background())
	defer cancel()
	target := "localhost:8080"
	conn, err := grpc.DialContext(ctx, target)
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}
	// Init Vald client
	client := vald.NewValdClient(conn)

	// Insert sample
	location, err := client.Insert(ctx, &payload.Insert_Request{
		// Vector information (mandatory)
		Vector: &payload.Object_Vector{
			// Set the vector
			Vector: []float32{0, 1, 2},
			// Set the specific ID for the vector
			// The ID must not be indexed.
			Id:     "sample",
		},
		// Insert configuration (optional)
		Config: &payload.Insert_Config{
			SkipStrictExistCheck: false,
			Filters: &payload.Filter_Config{
				Targets: []*payload.Filter_Target{
					{
						Host: "vald-ingress-filter",
						Port: 8081,
					},
				},
			},
			Timestamp: time.Now().UnixMilli(),
		},
	})
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}
	...
}
```

</details>

#### skip_strict_exist_check

> `skip_strict_exist_check` is the flag for checking whether the same set of the vector and ID is already inserted or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`skip_strict_exist_check` is a flag to skip checking whether the same set of the vector and ID is already inserted or not.
```

If it is set as `true`, the checking function will be skipped.<BR>
The default value is `false`.

#### filters

`filters` is the configuration when using filter functions.

> In the `Insert` section, it is popular to use ingress filtering.

Reviewer: is it popular?🤔

Author: ```suggestion
In the `Insert` section, it is popular to use ingress filtering when applying the filters configuration.
```

> In the `Insert` section, it is popular to use ingress filtering.

Reviewer 2: Is it better to use `common` ? 🤔

```suggestion
In the `Insert` section, it is common to use ingress filtering.
```

Author: https://github.com/vdaas/vald/pull/1783/commits/0c006116b16c5050a6204aa32b3d4680c9a153ce

The detailed configuration is following.

```rpc
// Filter related messages.
message Filter {

  // Represent the target filter server.
  message Target {
    // The target filter component hostname.
    string host = 1;
    // The target filter component port.
    uint32 port = 2;
  }

  // Represent filter configuration.
  message Config {
    // Represent the filter target configuration.
    repeated Target targets = 1;
  }
}
```

#### timestamp

`timestamp` is the timestamp when the vector is inserted.
When `timestamp` is not set, the current time will be used.

## Update Service

> `Update` is updating vectors already inserted in the `vald-agent` component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Update` service allows user to update vector(s) which is already inserted in the `vald-agent` component.
```

Reviewer: Also, do we need to specify vald-agent here?

Author: ```suggestion
`Update` service allows users to update vector(s) which is already inserted in the Vald cluster.
```

```go
package main

import (
	"context"
	"time"

	"github.com/vdaas/vald-client-go/v1/payload"
	"github.com/vdaas/vald-client-go/v1/vald"
	"google.golang.org/grpc"
)

func example() {
	// Create connection
	ctx, cancel := context.WithCancel(context.Background())
	defer cancel()
	target := "localhost:8080"
	conn, err := grpc.DialContext(ctx, target)
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}
	// Init Vald client
	client := vald.NewValdClient(conn)

	// Update sample
	location, err := client.Update(ctx, &payload.Update_Request{
		// Vector information (mandatory)
		Vector: &payload.Object_Vector{
			// Set the vector
			Vector: []float32{0, 1, 2},
			// Set the specific ID for the vector
                        // The ID must be already indexed.
			Id:     "sample",
		},
		// Update configuration (optional)
		Config: &payload.Update_Config{
			SkipStrictExistCheck: false,
			Filters: &payload.Filter_Config{
				Targets: []*payload.Filter_Target{
					{
						Host: "vald-ingress-filter",
						Port: 8081,
					},
				},
			},
			Timestamp: time.Now().UnixMilli(),
		},
	})
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}
	...
}
```

</details>

#### skip_strict_exist_check

> `skip_strict_exist_check` (default value is `false`) is the flag for checking whether the same set of the vector and ID is already inserted or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`skip_strict_exist_check` (default value is `false`) is a flag to skip checking whether the same set of the vector and ID is already inserted or not.
```

If it is set as `true`, the checking function will be skipped.<BR>

When `skip_strict_exist_check` is `false`, the following checking steps will run in the update process:

1. Check whether the set of ID and vector is already inserted.
   If there is no data, the update process ends with returning the `NOT_FOUND` error.
1. After passing the step.1, check whether the request vector is the same as the indexed vector.
   If it is the same, the update process ends with returning the `ALREADY_EXIST` error.

The update process will continue if all of the above steps have been passed.

#### filters

`filters` is the configuration when using filter functions.

> In the `Update` section, it is popular to use ingress filtering.

Author: ```suggestion
In the `Update` section, it is popular to use ingress filtering when applying the filter's configuration.
```

Reviewer: same as here, it is better to use `common` instead of `popular` here.
https://github.com/vdaas/vald/pull/1783/files#r963211146

The detailed configuration is following.

```rpc
// Filter related messages.
message Filter {

  // Represent the target filter server.
  message Target {
    // The target filter component hostname.
    string host = 1;
    // The target filter component port.
    uint32 port = 2;
  }

  // Represent filter configuration.
  message Config {
    // Represent the filter target configuration.
    repeated Target targets = 1;
  }
}
```

#### timestamp

`timestamp` is the timestamp when the vector is updated.
When `timestamp` is not set, the current time will be used.

## Upsert Service

> `Upsert` is updating existing vectors in the `vald-agent` or inserting new vectors into the `vald-agent` if the request vector is not indexed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Upsert` service allow user to update existing vectors in the `vald-agent` or inserting new vectors into the `vald-agent` if the request vector is not indexed.
```

Reviewer: same as above, do we need to specify vald-agent here?

Author: ```suggestion
`Upsert` service allows the user to update existing vectors in the Vald cluster or insert new vector(s) if the request vector is not indexed.
```

}
```

<details><summary>Upsert Configuration Sample (Go)</summary><br>

```go
package main

import (
	"context"
	"time"

	"github.com/vdaas/vald-client-go/v1/payload"
	"github.com/vdaas/vald-client-go/v1/vald"
	"google.golang.org/grpc"
)

func example() {
	// Create connection
	ctx, cancel := context.WithCancel(context.Background())
	defer cancel()
	target := "localhost:8080"
	conn, err := grpc.DialContext(ctx, target)
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}
	// Init Vald client
	client := vald.NewValdClient(conn)

	// Upsert sample
	location, err := client.Upsert(ctx, &payload.Upsert_Request{
		// Vector information (mandatory)
		Vector: &payload.Object_Vector{
			// Set the vector
			Vector: []float32{0, 1, 2},
			// Set the specific ID for the vector
			Id:     "sample",
		},
		// Upsert configuration (optional)
		Config: &payload.Upsert_Config{
			SkipStrictExistCheck: false,
			Filters: &payload.Filter_Config{
				Targets: []*payload.Filter_Target{
					{
						Host: "vald-ingress-filter",
						Port: 8081,
					},
				},
			},
			Timestamp: time.Now().UnixMilli(),
		},
	})
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}
        ...
}
```

</details>

#### skip_strict_exist_check

> `skip_strict_exist_check` (default value is `false`) is the flag for checking whether the same set of the vector and ID is already inserted or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`skip_strict_exist_check` (default value is `false`) is a flag to skip checking whether the same set of the vector and ID is already inserted or not.
```

If it is set as `false`, the checking function will be skipped.<BR>

When `skip_strict_exist_check` is `false`, the following checking steps will run in the upsert process:

> 1. Whether the set of (ID and vector) is already inserted or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check whether the set of (ID and vector) is already inserted or not.
```

   The request ID and vector will be inserted if there is no data.
1. After passing the step.1, check whether the request vector is the same as the indexed vector.
   If it is the same, the upsert process ends with returning the `ALREADY_EXIST` error.

The upsert process will continue if all of the above steps have been passed.

#### filters

`filters` is the configuration when using filter functions.

> In the `Upsert` section, it is popular to use ingress filtering.

Reviewer: same as above, is it popular?

Author: ```suggestion
In the `Upsert` section, it is popular to use ingress filtering when applying the filter's configuration.
```

> In the `Upsert` section, it is popular to use ingress filtering.

Reviewer 2: Is it better to use `common` ? 🤔 

```suggestion
In the `Upsert` section, it is common to use ingress filtering.
```

Author: https://github.com/vdaas/vald/pull/1783/commits/0c006116b16c5050a6204aa32b3d4680c9a153ce

The detailed configuration is following.

```rpc
// Filter related messages.
message Filter {

  // Represent the target filter server.
  message Target {
    // The target filter component hostname.
    string host = 1;
    // The target filter component port.
    uint32 port = 2;
  }

  // Represent filter configuration.
  message Config {
    // Represent the filter target configuration.
    repeated Target targets = 1;
  }
}
```

#### timestamp

`timestamp` is the timestamp when the vector is inserted or updated.
When `timestamp` is not set, the current time will be used.

## Search Service

Vald provides four types of search services.

1. Search

   - `Search` is the `ANN(Approximate Nearest Neighbor)` search with query vector.
     It is a fast search even though large dimension vector.
     The search duration is quick but less accurate than `LinearSearch`.
     The search algorithm depends on each core algorithm.

1. SearchById

   - `SearchById` is the `ANN(Approximate Nearest Neighbor)` search with the stored vector's ID.
     The ID should already exist in the NGT indexes before the search process.
     The search algorithm is the same as `Search`.

1. LinearSearch

>    - `LinearSearch` is the primary search algorithm with a query vector.

Reviewer: What is `primary search algorithm` means here? 🤔

Author: ```suggestion
   - `LinearSearch` is the most general search algorithm with a query vector.
```

     It searches all indexed vectors and calculates the distance between the query.

>      Its accuracy is exact, but the search time requires more than `Search` (ANN search) and increases the amount of indexed vector.

Reviewer: What is `increases the amount of indexed vector` means here?

Author: ```suggestion
     Its accuracy is exact, but the search time requires more than `Search` (ANN search) as increasing the amount of indexed vector.
```

Reviewer: Sorry but I can't understand. what is increased when searching?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     It returns accurate results but requires more processing time than `Search` (ANN search) as it needs to calculate from all indexed vectors instead of only a subset of indexed vectors.
```

```rpc
// Filter related messages.
message Filter {

  // Represent the target filter server.
  message Target {
    // The target filter component hostname.
    string host = 1;
    // The target filter component port.
    uint32 port = 2;
  }

  // Represent filter configuration.
  message Config {
    // Represent the filter target configuration.
    repeated Target targets = 1;
  }
}
```

#### egress_filters

`egress_filters` is required when using the egress filter component.
It requires the egress filter component's hostname and port.

```rpc
// Filter related messages.
message Filter {

  // Represent the target filter server.
  message Target {
    // The target filter component hostname.
    string host = 1;
    // The target filter component port.
    uint32 port = 2;
  }

  // Represent filter configuration.
  message Config {
    // Represent the filter target configuration.
    repeated Target targets = 1;
  }
}
```

#### min_num

`min_num` is the minimum number of search results you'd like to get at least.
It helps you avoid the timeout error when the search process requires more time.
`min_num` should be a positive integer smaller than `num`.

## Remove Service

> `Remove` is deleting the indexed vector from the Vald cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Remove` service allows the user to delete indexed vectors from the Vald cluster.
```

Author: ```suggestion
The `Remove` service allows the user to delete indexed vectors from the Vald cluster.
```

// Represent remove configuration.
message Config {
  // Check whether or not the same set of ID and vector is already inserted.
  bool skip_strict_exist_check = 1;
  // The timestamp when the vector was removed.
  int64 timestamp = 3;
}
```

<details><summary>Remove Configuration Sample (Go)</summary><br>

```go
package main

import (
	"context"
	"time"

	"github.com/vdaas/vald-client-go/v1/payload"
	"github.com/vdaas/vald-client-go/v1/vald"
	"google.golang.org/grpc"
)

func example() {
	// Create connection
	ctx, cancel := context.WithCancel(context.Background())
	defer cancel()
	target := "localhost:8080"
	conn, err := grpc.DialContext(ctx, target)
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}
	// Init Vald client
	client := vald.NewValdClient(conn)

	// Remove sample
	location, err := client.Remove(ctx, &payload.Remove_Request{
		// Vector ID (mandatory)
                // The ID must be already indexed.
		Id: &payload.Object_ID{
			Id: "sample",
		},
		// Remove configuration (optional)
		Config: &payload.Remove_Config{
			SkipStrictExistCheck: false,
			Timestamp: time.Now().UnixMilli(),
		},
	})
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}
        ...
}
```

</details>

### skip_strict_exist_check

> `skip_strict_exist_check` (default value is `false`) is the flag for checking whether the same set of the vector and ID is already inserted or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`skip_strict_exist_check` (default value is `false`) is a flag to skip checking whether the same set of the vector and ID is already inserted or not.
```
